hi I'm buck brannamon we've done some
things on this before and I wanted to
take the time to talk to you just a
little bit about this groundwork thing
it's something off and tell people this
it's not about teaching your horse how
to do a trick so much as it is about
getting your horse comfortable enough to
where you could you could ride him and
be safe and there's no way you're going
to do your groundwork to where you a
hundred percent eliminate every possible
thing that could go wrong but you are
trying to get them sure and not only
sure enough to where they're not going
to buck you off or run away but sure
enough that they're accurate that you
have some things going on the very
movements the very movements that you'd
be looking for when you're up there in
the saddle now a lot of folks are trying
to get the hind in front quarters to
operating but a word that you very
rarely hear is feel getting the horse to
operate on a field and what I'm always
thinking of is is is when I ask a horse
to go by me I'm thinking can you go by
me can you respond without making me
drive you without making me come from
behind and drive you now I prefer to use
my flag to drive them because then I'm
getting the horse used to the flag where
he's not afraid and I just as soon not
have to swing that rope and hit the
horse now if it was a spoiled horse that
was really sticky and didn't want to go
yeah I might swing that rope and I might
tap him on the rear but I'd really
rather not if I could avoid it and yet
at the same rate you're not at the end
game if you're still having to tap the
horse with the flag to get them to go it
means they're not operating on a field
yet I don't want her to move out of fear
but at the same rate this is the
separation I'm looking for I want to be
able to offer this and have that horse
move her feet if she didn't go then I
might come in with that flag and I'd
drive her but I'm not going to beat on
her